Along with existing documentation you can find online,
there are set of white papers that continue to help us
understand known vulnerabilities within smart contracts.
In this video, I'll go over three of them I've read so far
and point out pieces of them that I think would be particularly useful to you.
Before I jump into them,
keep in mind that while white papers can be a bit dense,
I've found that they are extremely clear and concise ways to
get a really strong understanding of the topics they present.
For each of these I provided
a general outline of the topics they cover down below the video.
This will help you see a little more clearly where they
overlap and which ones have completely unique information to look at.
A lot of the topics you in see these papers will
eventually exists somewhere else in a friendlier format.
I'll show you examples of that to in blogs and documentation.
The first paper I found is called 'A survey of attacks on Ethereum smart contracts'.
This paper breaks down a list of all the known vulnerabilities they could find.
The first couple of pages are general background to smart contracts.
But if you scroll down the page six,
they layout a taxonomy that includes
these attacks categorized by the type of vulnerability.
To me, it's interesting to see that they've been broken down into
multiple levels of architecture including solidity,
the EVM and the blockchain.
This lesson is mostly focused on solidity vulnerabilities but
it's important to understand that there are other types of vulnerabilities too.
Scrolling down, you'll see that some of this you're
familiar with already and some might be brand new to you.
Checking out the variety of code examples they provide
is helpful even if you have a good grasp of the concepts.
One thing you might notice here is that the parody attack isn't even mentioned.
That's because this was written in 2016 before this attack ever happened.
Before diving into this paper,
there's two more I want to walk you through.
The next paper is along one but I'll just
point out the parts that are important for us to use right now.
This one is called 'Ethereum Smart
Contracts: Security Vulnerabilities and Security Tools'.
On page seven, is the table of contents.
Under related work, you'll see their list of
vulnerabilities that they found for this document.
Right away, we can already see something we're familiar with.
This paper also broke the vulnerabilities into
three main categories and from there mentioned similar ideas.
You can read through this section to see if it helps
clarify anything that may have not been mentioned previously.
Along with these vulnerabilities this paper
also does an excellent job covering the introduction,
background, related work, methodology and many experiments related to smart contracts.
This one would definitely take a while to get through and you might
not read all of it but it's worth knowing that it exists.
Finally, the last paper I want to show you is called 'Making smart Contracts Smarter'.
This one helped me the most personally and understanding a lot of
the possible attacks while the other papers sort of fill in the gaps from there.
I like how they break this one down into known issues,
possible attacks, the code and a conceptual overview.
This breakdown inspired how I introduced
the DAO and parody attack and allows you to
think about the problem from multiple perspectives.
Once you get down into section four,
it's pretty dense and isn't really anything you need to know for now.
If it's interesting to you definitely takes
some time to read through and see what you get out of it.
The last thing, like I mentioned is that many of these ideas
are covered in a more reader friendly way and other places.
For one, the consensus documentation I showed you has an entire section on known attacks.
Besides that you can Google the name of any attack that's difficult
to grasp and there might be a post about it that's done to fill in the gaps for you.
That wraps up this overview of research and white papers.
I know this seems like a lot right now but what I'm hoping is that by looking at this,
you will soon be pleasantly surprised to
see that there's a ton of similarities between them.
Also, if you look up videos on YouTube about security,
there pretty much either referencing papers like this
or using them as motivation for their own examples.
So, if you're clear on these papers
you'll really be in a good place as you continue learning.
Check out the outlines I placed below the videos for
each of the papers to see what you'd like to focus on first.
So, have fun exploring and once you get the hang of this you will
have developed a great sense for known attacks on the Ethereum network.